# Background
In this document, we will discuss a brief background on satellites. We will then discuss the first satellite of Nepal - **Nepali-Sat 1**, **Antarikchya Pratisthan Nepal**, and **Vision 2050**. 


## Nepali Sat-1 : The first Nano-satellite of Nepal
NepaliSat-1 is a landmark achievement in Nepal's space journey, marking the country’s entry into the realm of space technology and satellite development. Launched on April 17, 2019,  NepaliSat-1 is Nepal's first nano-satellite, weighing just 1.3 kilograms. The nanosatellite was developed by two Nepalese scientists Aabhas Maskey and Hariram Shrestha, both of whom were at the time studying at Japanese Kyushu Institute of Technology. Aabhas Maskey, a PhD candidate in space engineering was the project manager of the Birds-3 project.

## History

To understand the logic behind ECube we have to look back to all the accomplishments that has happened in the Nepali Space sector. We will keep it brief, so that the reader gets to know where we are coming from and how it relates to the greater vision Antarikchya Pratisthan Nepal (APN) has for the future. It all started with the launch of NepaliSat-1 on April 17, 2019. That day serves as a starting point for Nepal into its venture in space sector. The developer of NepaliSat-1, to encourage, inspire and educate Nepali community about space sciences and satellites, founded a Non-profit Organization, APN (Space Foundation Nepal). Since then, APN has been credited with the design and development of Project Danfe and Project Munal. Not only has APN been making missions but it also has had been actively providing hands on training projects to high school students and teachers all around Nepal from private, public and governmental sector. As a matter of fact, Project Munal team consists of students, of different background, enrolled in highschool, making a 1U satellite. And they are also developing a payload for a 3U CubeSat Danfe.

It already has been established that making a satellite and deploying it in space is an expensive affair. Hence, engineers at APN came up with a comprehensible plan to educate Nepali public about the ins and outs of satellite design and development. With that primary objective, a low price copy Project Munal was made called SastoCube. The objective was well received and APN was given encouragement from different organizations to move on with project. Then a third satellite was made, primarily to introduce space technology to school students, that not only gave them hands on experience with satellite manufacture but also focused on mission design aspect of satellite development process. That project is called ECube which mainly focuses on educating interested parties on satellite sciences.

## ETSP (Education Through Satellite Projects) and ECube

Having taken it’s infantile steps in space, Nepali space sector was asked yet another question: Can Nepal conserve the momentum that it has gained? Do we also have the expertise to train, inspire and encourage newer generation of Nepali people to develop to keep the momentum alive?

CubeSat, a nano-satellite, has been actively developed at the level of university laboratories and private companies. Although the nano-satellite is smaller scale than a large satellite, it requires capabilities to build the satellite system by integrating various element technologies and legal procedures including launch and radio waves. The nano-satellite is a very effective educational material for learning system thinking in which various elements are appropriately combined. In order to aim to systematize those technologies and knowledge, education through satellite projects (ETSP) has implemented education of practical development via CanSat and nano-satellite in Nepal. In order to further expand various efforts under these circumstances, ETSP has implemented the construction of different creative technologists using the knowledge and experience they got during the program. This is implemented with the aim of providing education of system engineering to all the enthuses and learners. ETSP focuses on creating a higher education program of space technologists for undergraduates and graduate, where they will be presenting mission idea of space but they need to demonstrate that mission analogy. Mission ideas can be of CanSat and Nanosatellite. We conducted different types of programs for different groups of people; hands-on programs for engineers and researchers at universities, and the Cansat development programs for the mid and primary levels and PaperSat art competition for kids from 10-15 years.


## Antarikchya Pratisthan Nepal
Founded by dr. Abhas Maskey, Antarikchya Pratisthan Nepal is a non-profit organization that aims to develop the space and satellite industry of Nepal.

2015's earthquake in Nepal showed that the country needed before/after images and alternative mediums of communication. NepaliSat-1, led by Dr. Abhas Maskey, took the first step towards disaster mitigation by testing a self-built camera and communication module in space. Shortly after, Antarikchya Pratisthan Nepal was established. Since then, APN has been working to train the next generation of space leaders, tinkers, and designers to use the tools from space to solve problems on Earth while we simultaneously, focus on educating the general masses on space technology and its relevance to society.

Noteworthy is APN’s work in projects such as Munal, Nepal’s First High-School Cube Sat built and developed in-house; NEXT_GEN_CUBUS, a next-generation Satellite Bus system for CubeSat; PHI Project; Slippers2Sat, an ongoing middle-school CubeSat project including students from marginalized Chepang community; and many more. APN has also jointly collaborated and developed A Space Systems Laboratory at KUHS for the MUNAL Satellite. To inspire broader groups, APN has also developed outreach kits such as SastoCube, an educational non-flight satellite incorporating a complete end-to-end system of an entire CubeSat ecosystem; PaperSat, an innovative initiative designed for children of age 5+ to construct a satellite model using paper and plastic parts, and The Young Satellite Book; a children’s book inspired by Nepali Sat- 1.

Antarikchya Pratisthan Nepal aims to launch Nepal’s first astronaut by 2050. This vision of ours is quoted as “Vision 2050”. As Antarikchya Pratisthan Nepal continues to direct towards the organization’s ambitious goals, the organization also looks out for collaboration and partnerships as we believe forging alliances with international space agencies, research institutions, and industry partners can allow us to leverage expertise, resources, and opportunities to accelerate progress towards its objectives. Through collaboration, APN seeks to access cutting-edge technologies, exchange best practices, and amplify its impact on the global stage.


## Vision 2050

Vision 2050 of Antarikchya Pratisthan Nepal revolves around a milestone aiming to launch Nepal’s first astronaut by 2050. This ambitious vision represents a profound leap forward for Nepal, signifying its entry into the global arena of space exploration. At the heart of this endeavor lies a commitment to fostering innovation, scientific advancement, and national pride. APN is dedicated to empowering present and future generations of tinkerers, innovators, and engineers to achieve Vision 2050 through a multifaceted approach encompassing boot camps, training programs, and outreach activities.

The vision of launching the first Nepalese astronaut by 2050 serves as a powerful symbol of national pride and achievement. It represents a tangible manifestation of Nepal’s commitment to pushing the boundaries of human knowledge and exploration. By embarking on this historic journey, Nepal not only elevates its status on the global stage but also inspires future generations to dream big and reach for the stars. 

Vision 2050 focusing on marking a historic milestone in the nation’s journey also comprises of focused initiatives in education, training, and outreach through which the groundwork is being laid for a future where Nepalese astronauts boldly venture into the final frontier. 

[Back to Home](../../index.md)
